Hello English learners and welcome to another great lesson with us here at English Pod My Name is Marco
and I'm Erica and today we're bringing you a great upper intermediate lesson
that's right we're going to talk about a topic that's been in the news recently
and this topic is the bird flu that's right so can you tell us what the bird flu really is
basically the story is a lot of chickens and birds keep getting this disease
and they've managed to pass this disease to humans and the fear is that humans will
start to pass this disease to each other and a huge, huge number of people in the world
could get really sick okay yes so it sounds scary well it may be a little bit scary but we do
have some interesting language we've got language to talk about a disease and language
that you might use in a planning meeting at work all right so let's start by looking at
our vocabulary preview for this dialogue okay the first word on our vocabulary preview today is
contingency plan contingency plan contingency plan so a contingency plan is a plan that you
make to prepare for an emergency so like a backup plan exactly okay yeah contingency plan
and our last word for the vocabulary preview today is pandemic pandemic pandemic pandemic
so pandemic is something scary well yes it's an event where a disease affects a lot of people
like we're talking millions of people okay and it spreads very quickly and it goes international
okay so a disease that spreads very fast and goes everywhere exactly okay pandemic okay so we're
ready to listen to our dialogue we are going to be at a business meeting where people are talking
about a contingency plan well right let's move to our next order of business as many of you are
aware in recent weeks there has been a lot of media coverage surrounding this bird flu issue
and it's come to my attention that our company lacks any sort of bird flu contingency plan
basically we need to come up with a clear plan we need to outline specific actions that our
company can take to maintain critical business functions in case of pandemic strikes
so what I'd like to do is first a point someone to look after drafting our plan
Ralph I'd like you to head up this project sure enough problem what issues do you want me to consider?
well let's see there are a few points we need to be thinking about first I'll need you to
analyze our numbers and figure out what kind of financial impact an outbreak I have you'll also need
to think about how we can avoid any of our employees getting infected think of ways to reduce
employee customer contact perhaps some IT solutions that will allow our people to work from home
I guess you'll need me to focus employee absence as well right and I'll think about the impact this
will have on our clients hey what about vaccines should be but thinking about getting vaccines for
our employees exactly right so I'll leave this to you and we'll review the draft plan in
two weeks okay so anyone want to order some KFC for lunch all right what an ironic meeting
they are talking about the bird flu and they are going to have chicken yes after a sneezing all over
yeah I guess now we could take a look at our language takeaway for this dialogue
language takeaway we heard a lot of really useful language in this dialogue and right now we're
going to look at four different words from the dialogue the first one is critical critical critical
critical we've got some examples of this word that will help us to understand the meaning so let's
listen example one it's absolutely critical that we increase our sales if not the company will go bankrupt
example two we have a critical shortage of food if we don't get help people will die
example three this is a critical step in the process you can't make a mistake here
so when something's critical it's basically really important really urgent right okay great word critical
the next word we have is outbreak outbreak outbreak and outbreak so when outbreak is
is a sudden start of a disease right hmm can I say oh I got an outbreak of flu can
outbreak describe one person no an outbreak means that it's infecting a lot of people okay not only one
person so that we could say there was an outbreak of the flu at the office right which there was yeah
a lot of people got sick here with the flu yeah okay why don't you tell us about our third word
our third word is forecast forecast forecast forecast so to forecast basically means to predict exactly
for example you talk about the weather forecast yep okay great and the last word for a language take
away is vaccines vaccines vaccines vaccines so vaccines are something we all had when we were children
that's true they are injections that you get to prevent you from getting sick later right so an
injection of medicine from your doctor so that you don't get a disease in the future right when we
are small we get polio vaccine yeah measles vaccines yeah a lot of common diseases yes okay so that's
all for language take away some great language related to health and disease but we also heard
some great business related words in this dialogue that's true there's a lot of words that you can
use in a planning meeting so let's look at those now in fluency builder fluency builder
in today's fluency builder we're going to look at four useful phrases now this first phrase
you can use when you want to change the subject at a meeting let's listen to what they said
in the dialogue let's move to our next order of business let's move to our next order of business
okay so let's move to our next order of business it's a great way of saying let's move on
exactly it's passed to the next topic hmm great speaking of passing to the next topic we heard
another really interesting phrase in the dialogue let's listen we need to come up with a clear plan
we need to come up with a clear plan so we need to come up with a clear plan we need to
think of think of a clear plan yeah yeah we need to come up with yeah okay our third phrase
we heard in the dialogue is this okay i'd like you to hit up this project so this
phrase head up this is a great phrase it means i'd like you to lead or take care of this project
okay and the last phrase for fluency builder you can use when you want to give someone the
responsibility of a job we heard this so i'll leave this to you so i'll leave this to you this is
you take charge exactly i'll leave this to you that's a great way of delegating a responsibility and
so we're gonna leave you to listen to our dialogue a last time and be sure to pick up all the
great vocabulary that we just talked about well right let's move to our next order of business
as many of you are aware in recent weeks there has been a lot of media coverage surrounding
this bird flu issue and it's come to my attention that our company lacks any sort of bird flu
contingency plan basically we need to come up with a clear plan we need to outline specific
actions that our company can take to maintain critical business functions in case of pandemic strikes
so what i'd like to do is first point someone to look after drafting our plan
Ralph i'd like you to head up this project sure and no problem what issues do you want me to consider
well let's see there are a few points we need to be thinking about first i'll need you to
analyze our numbers and figure out what kind of financial impact an outbreak i have
you'll also need to think about how we can avoid any of our employees getting infected
think of ways to reduce employee customer contact perhaps some IT solutions that will allow
our people to work from home i guess you'll need me to focus employee absence as as well right
and i'll think about the impact this will have on our clients hey what about vaccines should
be the thinking about getting vaccines for our employees exactly right so i'll leave this to you
and uh well we'll review the draft plan in in two weeks okay so anyone want to order some KFC for lunch
okay great so this contingency plan idea is really interesting right yeah it makes sense for
a company to prepare in case there is an outbreak of bird flu i mean they need to maintain their
critical business functions even if all the employees are sick hey right i guess that's really
important and uh you have to forecast all these uh possibilities like people are going to be away
from the office or even forecast less sales etc that's right the interesting thing is that
businesses that may not actually be involved in food production or raising chickens or something
like that are making these contingency plans i find that really fascinating so it seems there is
a lot of fear out there about the possibility of a pandemic yeah yeah well hopefully they'll come
out with the vaccines so we don't have to worry about these things that's true but until then
we'll have to create contingency plans that's right okay guys we're out of time today and i
hope you enjoyed our lesson and found all these words and phrases really useful and you can apply
them in real life alright guys thanks for listening and be sure to check out our website englishpod.com
where you can leave all your questions and comments marco and i are always around to answer your
questions so until then it's bye goodbye